## Size Limits

In many scenarios, CloudEvents will be forwarded through one or more generic
intermediaries, each of which might impose limits on the size of forwarded
events. CloudEvents might also be routed to consumers, like embedded devices,
that are storage or memory-constrained and therefore would struggle with large
singular events.

The "size" of an event is its wire-size and includes every bit that is
transmitted on the wire for the event: protocol frame-metadata, event metadata,
and event data, based on the chosen event format and the chosen protocol
binding.

If an application configuration requires for events to be routed across
different protocols or for events to be re-encoded, the least efficient
protocol and encoding used by the application SHOULD be considered for
compliance with these size constraints:

- Intermediaries MUST forward events of a size of 64 KByte or less.
- Consumers SHOULD accept events of a size of at least 64 KByte.

In effect, these rules will allow producers to publish events up to 64KB in size
safely. Safely here means that it is generally reasonable to expect the event to
be accepted and retransmitted by all intermediaries. It is in any particular
consumer's control, whether it wants to accept or reject events of that size due
to local considerations.

Generally, CloudEvents publishers SHOULD keep events compact by avoiding
embedding large data items into event payloads and rather use the event payload
to link to such data items. From an access control perspective, this approach
also allows for a broader distribution of events, because accessing
event-related details through resolving links allows for differentiated access
control and selective disclosure, rather than having sensitive details embedded
in the event directly.